The Project Gutenberg EBook of Down the Scale or Up, by Barbara Abel

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Down the Scale or Up

Author: Barbara Abel

Release Date: September 22, 2020 [EBook #63264]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DOWN THE SCALE OR UP ***




Produced by Stephen Hutcheson, Lisa Corcoran and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net









                            _Down the Scale
                               Or Up..._


                                  _by_
                              BARBARA ABEL

                      Copyright 1939—Revised 1948
                    NATIONAL DAIRY COUNCIL CHICAGO 6
                               (19) 1958

                                       _This will be music to your ears_




                             _Introduction_
                             TO SLENDERNESS


    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

Not skinniness! It’s no light matter, Hortense, this question of
figures. You can _figure_ on that. Even the new styles won’t hide the
awful fact that you bulge where you shouldn’t, OR that you own _no_
curves where you should.

Yes, it’s a tough racket melting the too, too solid flesh. Figure how
much you have crept up on the scale, let your doctor figure how fast you
dare go down without landing—flop—farther than you ever intended. This
little book? It’s encouragement, blandishment, a little judicious
enragement—but it isn’t medicament.

How about reducing tricks? Well, Dumpling, let’s take a look. Glands? A
slick trick for a few, probably not you. Bath salts? They dissolve the
budget, nothing more. Laxatives? Money in the promoter’s pocket. Thyroid
and other drugs? No, no, NO!

Suppose you want to go up the scale? Put some curves in place of angles?
Improve the pep and disposition? Reverse what the fat gal does. Where
she envies, you eat. Where she hustles, you rest. When she refuses a
snack, you snatch it.

Either way you go on the scale—up or down—it comes back largely to how
much you eat, when, and most important, _what_. Either way you go, don’t
neglect—milk, cheese, eggs, meat, and fish—fruits, vegetables, and
whole-grain cereals. Emphasize salt and water to gain, cut down on both
to lose.

Cheerio, whichever way you’re bound. The diet does it. You can figure on
that, lady!

    [Illustration: W. W. Bauer]

  W. W. BAUER, M.D.
  Director, Bureau of Health Education
  American Medical Association


                      DESIRABLE WEIGHTS FOR WOMEN
                            Ages 25 and Over

After thirty it is better to be weighed in the balance and found
wanting.

     HEIGHT      WEIGHT IN POUNDS (as ordinarily dressed)
  (with shoes)
                 Small Build   Medium Build    Large Build

  4 ft. 11 in.        104-111        110-118        117-127
  5 ft.  0 in.        105-113        112-120        119-129
  5 ft.  2 in.        110-118        117-125        124-135
  5 ft.  4 in.        116-125        124-132        131-142
  5 ft.  6 in.        123-132        130-140        138-150
  5 ft.  8 in.        129-139        137-147        145-158
  5 ft. 10 in.        136-147        145-155        152-166




                             COMES THE DAY!


    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

There comes a day in many a woman’s life when she has a THOUGHT. Namely:
“I MUST start on a diet.”

A mere trifle may bring on this thought. Such as:

a) a saleswoman murmurs, “Well, dear, perhaps a size 38 _would_ be just
a wee bit more comfy.”

b) a taxi driver asks, “Where to, Madam?” (they’ve always called you
“Miss”).

c) a husbandly voice commands, “Sit in front with me, Sonnie, and give
mother the back seat where she can spread.”

d) walking down Main Street you catch a quick, dreadfully candid glimpse
of yourself in a plate glass window. “Heavens!”

If the THOUGHT has come to you, it is likely, alas, to be followed
swiftly by second, third, fourth, and fifth thoughts. Thus:

2) “Oh well, I’m not so _very_ fat.”

3) “As it is, I don’t eat enough to keep a bird alive.”

4) “Anyhow, I come by it naturally—look at my own mother!”

5) “Besides, diets are dreadful.”

We won’t argue with you about thoughts 2, 3 or 4, assuming that you know
more about your weight, your intake, and your mother than we do. But
when you get to thought 5, we rise up, thus:


                       DIETS NEED NOT BE DREADFUL

(If this booklet doesn’t prove it, then you go right on eating food and
we’ll have to eat the booklet.)


                       DON’T FALL FOR FALLACIES!

You can easily talk yourself out of dieting by falling for one of those
old fallacies that women hug to their (ample) bosoms, namely:

“What I _really_ need is a new girdle.”

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

“To be slim and svelte, all you need to do is to ooze yourself into our
Streamliner Stretch.” Sez the ad. “Pooh!” sez we. Common courtesy should
tell you that you have to meet a two-way stretch half-way. No
sixteen-ounce trifle of satin and elastic is going to cope with 160
pounds of womanhood, and stay svelte. Science is wonderful, my dear, but
it’s not _that_ good!

“I really need my extra weight for reserve.”

We freely admit that camels are said to store up extra fat for reserve
in their humps. Camels lead hard lives. But when were _you_ last in the
Sahara Desert?

“I haven’t the will power to go on a reducing diet.”

It isn’t _will_ power so much as _choice_ power that’s needed. We
complimented a girl recently for sticking so faithfully to a diet.
“Honestly, it isn’t a bit hard now,” she said. “I simply looked myself
in the eye one day and asked, ‘Well, which do you choose—to step into a
nifty 36 without alterations? Or fudge cake?’ After I really set my mind
on the 36, the fudge cake just bored me.” (There must be a moral here
somewhere.)

“Oh, well, I’ll start on a diet ... next week.”

All we can say to this is that statistics (and human nature) prove that
you won’t.


                       THE CASE OF MRS. PLENTEOUS

So far we’ve been appealing to your good looks. Here goes for a try at
your good sense. (You must have some, or you wouldn’t still be reading.)
We refer to good sense about health.

Some women are beautiful, some are healthy, some are both, and some are
neither. And into the last class fall (or roll) the definitely
overweight.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

Now you’re going to cry, “Nonsense! Look at Mrs. Plenteous; she’s
enormous, and as healthy as a horse.”

Well, we don’t know Mrs. Plenteous personally, but we’ll take your word
that she’s a human being, and as such she was never intended to be
enormous. She was made according to a careful pattern that hasn’t varied
in thousands of years, by an expert designer who put strength and
usefulness and beauty into his designs. Mrs. Plenteous has the
regulation number of bones, muscles, and vital organs (barring
operations). None of them is enormous. Each was built to carry around a
certain weight without undue strain. If Mrs. Plenteous is enormous, her
organs are carrying around an enormous strain. They _can_ take it—for a
while—and they _will_—for a while. But Mrs. Plenteous is not really
healthy, she’s just lucky—so far.


                       DON’T TAKE OUR WORD FOR IT

Ask your doctor. Ask your insurance agent (if you can edge in a word).
They will tell you, we think, that excessive waistlines tend to go along
with shorter lifelines. Medical records warn us that the overweight (or
underweight, see page 21) person is much more susceptible to illness
than the person whose weight is normal. And how surgeons loathe
operating through layers of fat! And by the way, look around you at a
roomful of elderly people. Aren’t most of them rather willowy? The
“enormous” ones left early.


                             SAFETY FIRST!

There are so many tricky health questions involved in reducing that we
are not going to take the responsibility of advising you specifically
how to do it. We do suggest, however, that you:

1) See your doctor. If you haven’t a doctor of your own, see somebody
else’s. He’ll be glad to become yours for the asking. He knows much more
about you than you do, having spent a great deal of time and money to
learn it, which you never did. Perhaps an ordinary reducing diet is not
for you. Perhaps you have funny glands or a messy metabolism, which he
will discover by careful tests and experiments. Perhaps you are not as
overweight as you think you are.

2) Do what your doctor tells you. This will surprise him very much, but
will also please and flatter him, and will cause him to work like mad on
your case.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

3) Don’t take any advice from your friends. You know very well that you
don’t agree with their politics, approve of their hats, or care much for
their children. Why should you trust them on a matter much more intimate
and vital?

4) Don’t try short cuts. It took time to put on those extra pounds, and
it will take time to get them off. Don’t be beguiled by success stories
of fad diets or slimming salts. You want to reduce your weight
_only_—not your chances of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.
These magic potions may be harmless in nine cases out of ten, but it’s
maybe just _your_ luck to draw number ten!

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


                    WHERE DO WE GO FROM HERE, GIRLS?

... into the pantry! To hear us talk about diets you might be thinking
that we disapprove of food in general. Not so; we love it! Both kinds,
the Protective Foods and the Energy Foods.


                          LIVE—AND ENJOY LIFE

The Protective Foods keep you alive. The Energy Foods keep you enjoying
life. Energy foods are like the gas in your car; they give you the quick
start, the power to go places, the speed to get there fast. If you’ve
ever run out of gas on a country road, you know how important energy is.

Energy foods are delicious. And fattening. Let’s boldly mention a few:

  Chocolate eclairs, pies, French pastries, griddle cakes, shortcake,
  rich salad dressings—yummy!

If you would reduce yourself, reduce them first! Of course, there are
other Energy Foods without so much glamor but with more honest goodness
(and less fat). We refer to such friends of humanity as bread and
potatoes. Don’t see too much of them, but don’t snub them entirely. And
whenever you reduce _any_ of the Energy Foods, be sure to put in their
places more of the Protective Foods.

For the Protective Foods are like the brakes on your car. They keep you
out of trouble. They build up your blood by bringing it minerals and
vitamins. They help you repel colds and other worse things (if there
_are_ any worse things).

We can conceal from you no longer the fact that these good, reliable,
tasty and health building foods include:


                MILK—VEGETABLES—FRUITS—EGGS—MEAT—CHEESE

Whatever you weigh, you need both kinds of food. So don’t go cutting out
all energy foods and then, when you get to feeling droopy, say we told
you to do it. WE NEVER DID.


                        DID SOMEBODY SAY “MILK”?

At this point some pupil is sure to raise her hand and ask, “Oh, but
isn’t milk _terribly_ fattening?”

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

No, Gwendolyn, it isn’t. Milk gets its chief fame from calcium. Calcium
may sound like a pretty dull mineral, but believe us, it’s worth its
weight in gold. In fact, if you have plenty of calcium in your teeth,
you won’t need so much gold. As for bones, they are full of calcium, or
should be. Milk also contains several vitamins and a dozen or so other
minerals. In fact, milk is a mineral mine (and yours, too, since there’s
plenty for both of us).

Moreover, milk is rich in proteins. And proteins are the material from
which your muscles are made. If you have no muscles to speak of, please
consider that we are speaking of your husband’s muscles. (If _he_ has
none, we have just been wasting our time.)


                               BABY TALK

Some people seem to think that milk is for babies only. You might just
as well say that baths are for babies only. Or love, or petting. No one
ever outgrows the need for milk (or baths or love or petting). No other
food will do as much to maintain health throughout life.




                          Why, THIS Isn’t Bad!


To prove that you can diet and like it, here is a sample of a
delicious—but discreet—menu. Be guided in quantities by _your_ calorie
needs. See page 20. (For the not-very-active, reducing diets average
1,400 to 1,500 calories a day.)

                               Breakfast
  Sliced Orange
  Poached Egg
  Buttered Toast
  Milk
  Coffee or Tea
                                Luncheon
  Open-face Grilled Cheese Sandwich
  Tomato
  Cabbage Slaw
  Fruit Cup
  Milk
                                 Dinner
  Broiled Fish or Steak
  Green Beans
  Combination Salad, Lemon Juice
  Bread and Butter
  Ice Cream
    Average servings. See pages 30 to 35.
    Calories for the day—1,450 to 1,500.


                          CONCERNING CALORIES

You probably know about calories. There’s been a lot of talk about them.
In case, however, you still confuse them with vitamins, we point out
that a calorie is simply a rather nice word for a measurement of energy.
If you weigh too much, you aren’t using up calories as fast as you are
taking them in.

In case you have vowed to carry this booklet around with you until you
have lost such and such a number of pounds—and it might be a good
idea—we have gone to considerable pains to make lists of foods with the
number of calories in each. We have not counted these calories
personally, but somebody with better eyes than ours has, and you may
rely on his count. (See pages 30 to 35.)


                     WORDS TO LADIES OF WILL POWER

If you need to reduce, take your excess weight off gradually (no more
than 1 to 2 pounds weekly) by cutting your calories every day. Try
eating 500 to 1,000 calories less daily until you discover what it takes
to lose the desired amount. Pick your calories to reduce your weight,
not your disposition.

When you reach the weight at which you _feel_ best and _look_ best,
don’t get wobbly in will power or careless in eating.

This may take some figuring, but remember, this booklet is all about
figures anyhow.

THANK YOU for going all this way with us. We hope that you’ll find it
was well worth the time. If we ever meet you face to face we’ll probably
exclaim, “Darling, how WELL you look! Haven’t you lost some weight?”


                              UP THE SCALE

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

The next few pages are written on an ascending scale for those who want
to go up, up, UP to Par:

  Par in vitality
  Par in energy
  Par in good looks

We spoke pretty sternly to a certain Mrs. Plenteous. Now let us give
thought to Mrs. Plenteous’ sister-under-the-skin-and-bones, Miss Gaunt.

For months Miss Gaunt’s overstuffed friends may have fawned on her
figure:

“You’re so _slender_, my dear!” Now “slender” is indeed a flattering
word. But any good dictionary will list some sinister synonyms: spare,
lank, skinny, scrawny, scraggly, and spindly, to name a few. Some day
the remark will be: “You’re so skin—er—slender, my dear!”—and Miss Gaunt
will feel flattened—not flattered.

And perhaps she’ll take a good long look at herself, noting certain
hollows in the cheek, certain knobs in the elbows, a certain chronic
weariness, (not to mention crossness) and she’ll think: “Maybe I
_should_ try to build up a little.” When that time comes, we do hope
that Mrs. Plenteous lends her this booklet.


                             FIGURE IT OUT

Many over or underweight people love to blame their figures on their
ancestors. (If they’re perfect 36’s, of course, they take all the credit
themselves.) “My dear grandmother weighed 200 pounds, so there’s not a
thing I can do about it,” beams Mrs. Plenteous, splashing the third lump
of sugar in her coffee. “_My_ family tree was a beanpole,” sighs Miss
Gaunt. “No thanks—no sugar or cream.”

The truth is that, according to anthropologists, there are in general
three types of body build: the stout, the medium, and the lean. You may
possibly have inherited your grandmother’s type of figure, just as you
may also have inherited her house. But there’s no law against remodeling
the house—or the figure. Surely the smart thing is to make the house the
best possible house of its type, one which you’ll enjoy living in; and
the figure the best possible figure of _its_ type—one you’ll enjoy
living _with_.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


                           IT SHOULD BE DONE

Perhaps we’ve dwelt overmuch on the good looks angle. But surely the
right angle on good looks is good health. To be under par is to be
caught short on the reserves which, if you have them, do so much to
cushion the bumps of hectic modern living, and ward off the illnesses
that pounce so gleefully on the tired, the rundown, the undernourished
human frame.


                             IT CAN BE DONE

A wise nutritionist has said, “There are two ways of building up, just
as there are two ways of getting rich. One is to cut down on your
expenses, the other is to increase your income.”

The “expenses” are energy, and you can decrease them by taking more
rest, less violent exercise, more sleep, and by keeping calm. The
“income” is food. And the thing to do with it is to eat _more_ of it—and
_more choosily_ of it! For though music may be the food of love, the
food of growth is groceries!

Too often have we heard languid creatures wail, “But I’m not hungry—I
can’t swallow a _thing_!” To them from us goes a simple but hearty
“Nonsense!”

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

Swallowing is an ordinary mechanical act which almost anybody can
perform, providing there is no foreign body in the throat (in which case
hang by your heels or call your doctor). The hitch is that most people
who claim that they can’t eat are waiting for appetite to say when. Now
your appetite is a fickle counselor and often does not have your best
interest at heart. Just look what it does to Mrs. Plenteous! Our advice
is this: Ignore it and eat anyhow. Chances are that appetite, surprised
and stimulated by regular shipments of body-building food, will come to
life and get back on the job.

Other non-eaters insist that their stomachs are too small. Well,
stomachs are timid creatures. If they don’t get much they quit expecting
much. And they shrink. But they are flexible organs and adapt well to
inflation. Start feeding them more, and they’ll take it—and like it.
Start gradually, though, and give them time to adjust. Eat oftener and
less at a time. And at regular times! Increase your calories by 500 to
1,000 a day (see pages 30 to 35). But don’t just pile them on. Team them
up with their right partners—the PROTEINS, VITAMINS, MINERALS. And of
course don’t take our word for _anything_ without checking with your
doctor!


                     MRS. PLENTEOUS SHOULDN’T PEEK

The next few pages may be a little hard on Mrs. Plenteous, so we hope
she left us on page 20. For from here on in we get just voracious about
food. “Help yourself,” Miss Gaunt—

NOT to a cup of bouillon—BUT to a brimming bowl of cream soup

NOT to lettuce leaves and lemon juice—BUT to a salad bowl, tangy with
cheese and dressing

NOT to a dry rye crisp—BUT to those warm rolls and butter

NOT to just wafers of lean meat—BUT to a thick pork chop sometimes—with
gravy

NOT to a modest glass of milk twice a day—BUT to an _extra_ glass or a
double chocolate malted maybe.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


                             WHO SAID MILK

Milk? Ah, now there’s a beverage both Mrs. P. and Miss G. can sip with
sociability. For milk is the menu’s best builder-upper and is essential
whether you’re headed UP or DOWN. But while Mrs. Plenteous should stick
to plain, whole milk, (with such companions as cottage cheese, American
cheese, plain ice cream, and some butter) Miss Gaunt may let herself go
on parts of milk that will stick to _her_—cream, butter, and cream
cheeses.

Milk has many virtues: It adds to the food income without cramming bulk
into those small stomachs previously noted. And it is the world’s best
mixer, combining graciously with hundreds of other foods, enhancing and
enriching them.

Consider a few of the forms milk can assume. Every one is a boost for
Miss Gaunt as she goes up, up, UP that scale:

  cereals cooked with milk
  eggs poached in milk
  vegetables anointed with butter
  cheese souffles
  potatoes, scalloped, mashed, or creamed
  custards and custard sauces
  oyster stew—half and half
  cakes, cookies, tarts—with ice cream
  strawberries, peaches and cream
  cantaloupe _à la mode_, pie _à la mode_—

Indeed, anything _à la mode_ is the right mode for Miss Gaunt!

Whee! Merely setting down such a list makes us feel as though we’d put
on ten pounds. Pardon us while we unhook our stays!

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

And may you, Miss Gaunt, soon be doing the same! BUT—don’t overdo it!
Mrs. Plenteous knows it is hard to _melt_. Set your goals to look and
feel your best.




                           TABLE OF CALORIES


Take your calories in good, reliable, tasty, and health-building foods
first. Expand cautiously.

                            DAIRY PRODUCTS
                                     Average Serving       Calories

  Whole Milk                      1 glass (8 oz.)                170
  Skimmed Milk                    1 glass                         85
  Buttermilk                      1 glass                         85
  Cheese (American)               1 ounce                        110
  Cottage Cheese, creamed         ½ cup                          120
  Cream Cheese                    2 tablespoons                  110
  Cream (coffee)                  2 tablespoons                   60
  Cream (heavy)                   2 tablespoons                  100
  Cream (whipped)                 2 tablespoons                   50
  Half-and-half                   ¼ cup                           80
  Butter                          1 tablespoon                   100
  Ice Cream                       ⅙ quart                        205

                           VEGETABLES (raw)

  Lettuce                         ¼ head                          10
  Cabbage                         1 cup                           25
  Celery                          2 stalks                         5
  Carrots                         1 medium                        20

                      GREEN VEGETABLES (cooked)

  Cabbage                         ½ cup                           20
  Greens                          ½ cup                           25
  Asparagus                       ½ cup                           20
  Green Beans                     ½ cup                           15
  Broccoli                        ½ cup                           20

                       ROOT VEGETABLES (cooked)

  Carrots                         ½ cup                           20
  Beets                           ½ cup                           35
  Potato (plain)                  1 medium                       100
  Potatoes (scalloped)            ½ cup                          120
  Potatoes (mashed)               ½ cup                          120
  Sweet Potato                    1 medium                       180

                      OTHER VEGETABLES (cooked)

  Tomato (fresh)                  1 medium                        25
  Tomato Juice                    ½ cup                           25
  Peas                            ½ cup                           65
  Corn                            ½ cup                           70
  Onions                          ½ cup                           40
  Hubbard Squash                  ½ cup                           50

                                SALADS

  Cabbage (vinegar dressing)      ½ cup                           50
  Cabbage (cream dressing)        ½ cup                           85
  Banana-Nut (mayonnaise)         ½ cup                          260
  Mixed Green (Fr. dressing)      ½ cup                           70
  Combination (lemon juice)       1 medium                        40
  Perfection (no dressing)        ½ cup                           85
  Potato (mayonnaise)             ½ cup                          185
  Waldorf (mayonnaise)            3 hp. tbsp.                    140
  Dressing, French                1 tablespoon                    60
  Dressing, fruit                 1 tablespoon                    50
  Dressing, mayonnaise            1 tablespoon                    90
  Dressing, boiled                1 tablespoon                    30

                            FRUITS (fresh)

  Apple                           1 medium                        75
  Apple (baked, sweetened)        1 large                        200
  Apricots                        5 medium                        80
  Banana                          1 medium                        90
  Avocado                         ⅓ pear                         165
  Grapefruit                      ½ medium                        75
  Lemon Juice                     1 tablespoon                     5
  Orange                          1 medium                        70
  Orange Juice                    1 cup                          110
  Peach                           1 medium                        50
  Pear                            1 medium                        65
  Pineapple                       ¾″ slice                        45
  Raspberries                     ½ cup                           35
  Prunes (dried)                  4 large                        100
  Cantaloupe                      ½ of 5″ melon                   50

                            FRUIT (canned)

  Apricots                        3 large halves                 100
  Cherries (Royal Ann)            ½ cup                          100
  Fruit Cup                       ½ cup                           90
  Peaches                         2 large halves                 100
  Pineapple                       3½″ × ½″                        50

                            CREAMED DISHES

  Creamed Eggs                    1, ¼ cup sauce                 175
  Creamed Carrots                 ½ cup                           70
  Macaroni and Cheese             ¾ cup                          350
  Cheese Souffle                  ¾ cup                          150

                      MEAT, FISH, POULTRY, EGGS

  Steak (broiled, gravy)          2″ × 3″ × ½″                   100
  Lamb Chop                       1 medium                       130
  Pork Chop (broiled, lean)       1 medium                       200
  Roast Beef                      3¾″ × 3½″ × ¼″                 150
  Meat Loaf (beef)                4″ × 2½″ × ½″                  150
  Hamburger                       1 medium                       200
  Beef Hash                       ¾ cup                          200
  Ham (boiled, lean)              5″ × 5″ × ⅛″                   115
  Liver                           4″ × 3″ × ½″                   100
  Bacon                           2-3 Slices                     100
  Lamb Stew                       1 cup                          390
  Fish (steamed, broiled)         1 medium serv.                 100
  Salmon                          ⅓ cup                          100
  Chicken                         ¼ cup                          100
  Egg (soft-cooked, poached)      1                               75
  Egg (pan scrambled)             1                              120

                       BREAD STUFFS AND CEREALS

  Griddle Cakes                   2 med. cakes                   120
  Waffle                          1 medium                       215
  Biscuits                        2 small                        130
  Bread                           l-ounce slice                   75
  Cooked Cereal                   ½ cup                           70
  Muffin                          2¾″ diam.                      135
  Zwieback                        3¼″ × 1¼″ × ½″                  35
  Corn Bread                      2″ × 2″ × 2″                   140
  French Toast                    4″ × 3¾″ × ½″                  150
  Rye Wafer                       1 small                         20
  Cracker (saltine)               2″ square                       15

                           LENTILS AND NUTS

  Limas (dried, cooked)           ½ cup                          140
  Limas (fresh, cooked)           ½ cup                           75
  Navy Beans (stewed)             ½ cup                          100
  Baked Pork and Beans            ½ cup                          160
  Peanut Butter                   1 tablespoon                    90
  Peanuts                         10                              50
  Pecans                          6                               50
  Cashews                         6-8                             90

                         DESSERTS AND PASTRY

  Baked Custard                   ½ cup                          140
  Rice Pudding                    ½ cup                          165
  Bread Pudding                   ½ cup                          200
  Chocolate Pudding               ½ cup                          220
  Cornstarch Pudding              ½ cup                          140
  Filled Cream Puff               1 medium                       175
  Sponge Cake                     2¼″ × 2¾″ × 1½″                100
  Plain Cake                      2″ × 2″ × 1″                   100
  Layer Cake (iced)               2″ sector                      400
  Plain Cookies                   2 medium                       100
  Doughnut                        1, medium                      135
  Apple Pie                       ⅛, 9″ pie                      230
  Cherry Pie                      ⅛, 9″ pie                      370
  Coconut Custard Pie             ⅛, 9″ pie                      355
  Custard Pie                     ⅛, 9″ pie                      200
  Mince Pie                       ⅛, 9″ pie                      340
  Lemon Meringue Pie              ⅛, 9″ pie                      340
  Pumpkin Pie                     ⅛, 9″ pie                      275
  Cheese Cake                     2½″ sector                     275

                                SOUPS

  Cream Soups                     1 cup                          200
  Oyster Stew                     1 cup                          240
  Bouillon                        ¾ cup                            9
  Split Pea                       ¾ cup                          200
  Clear Tomato                    ¾ cup                           60
  Vegetable (broth type)          ¾ cup                           55

                              SANDWICHES

  Chicken Salad                   1                              245
  Grilled Cheese (open)           1, 1 sl. bread                 215
  Egg Salad                       1                              280
  Ham                             1                              280
  Lettuce and Tomato              1                              200
  Peanut Butter                   1                              300
  Swiss Cheese                    1                              270

                            MISCELLANEOUS

  Fudge                           l¼″ × 1″ × ¾″                  100
  Chocolate Sundae                1 medium                       215
  Ice Cream Soda                  Fountain size                  260
  Chocolate Almond Bar            1 small                        130
  Cocoa                           ¾ cup                          180
  Choc. Malted Milk               Fountain size                  500
  Chop Suey                       1 cup                          400
  Brown Gravy                     ¼ cup                          100
  Soft Drinks                     1 bottle, 8 oz.                110
  Sugar                           1 tablespoon                    50
  Jams, Jellies                   1 tablespoon                    55
  Pretzels                        5 small sticks                  20




                         TO LADIES IN WEIGHTING


Keep a regular record, using the same scales, if possible.

                             DATE     WEIGHT

                           _______   _______
                           _______   _______
                           _______   _______
                           _______   _______
                           _______   _______
                           _______   _______
                           _______   _______
                           _______   _______
                           _______   _______




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos, including listed errata.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.







End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Down the Scale or Up, by Barbara Abel

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DOWN THE SCALE OR UP ***

***** This file should be named 63264-0.txt or 63264-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/2/6/63264/

Produced by Stephen Hutcheson, Lisa Corcoran and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

